docs/index.rst, before:

.. cxotime documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Nov 14 12:35:27 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _Time: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/api/astropy.time.Time.html#astropy.time.Time
.. _TimeDelta: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/time/index.html#time-deltas
.. _astropytime: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/time/index.html
.. _DateTime: http://cxc.harvard.edu/mta/ASPECT/tool_doc/pydocs/Chandra.Time.html
.. |CxoTime| replace:: :class:`~cxotime.cxotime.CxoTime`

Chandra-specific astropy Time class
===================================

The ``cxotime`` package provides a |CxoTime| class which provides Chandra-specific
functionality while deriving from the Time_ class of the astropytime_ package.
The astropytime_ package provides robust 128-bit time representation,
arithmetic, and comparisons.

The Chandra-specific time formats which are added to the astropy Time_ class
are shown in the table below.  Like DateTime_, the |CxoTime| class
default is to interpret any numerical values as ``secs`` (aka ``cxcsec`` in
the native Time_ class).

========= ===========================================  =======
 Format   Description                                  System
========= ===========================================  =======
secs      Seconds since 1998-01-01T00:00:00 (TT)       utc
date      YYYY:DDD:hh:mm:ss.ss..                       utc
frac_year YYYY.ffffff = date as a floating point year  utc
greta     YYYYDDD.hhmmsssss                            utc
========= ===========================================  =======


Compatibility with DateTime
---------------------------

The key differences between |CxoTime| and DateTime_ are:

- In |CxoTime| the date '2000:001' is '2000:001:00:00:00' instead of
  '2000:001:12:00:00' in DateTime_ (prior to version 4.0).  In most cases this
  interpretation is more rational and expected.

- In |CxoTime| the date '2001-01-01T00:00:00' is UTC by default, while in
  DateTime_ that is interpreted as TT by default.  This is triggered by
  the ``T`` in the middle.  A date like '2001-01-01 00:00:00' defaults
  to UTC in both |CxoTime| and DateTime_.

- In |CxoTime| the difference of two dates is a TimeDelta_ object
  which is transformable to any time units.  In DateTime_ the difference
  of two dates is a floating point value in days.

- Conversely, starting with |CxoTime| one can add or subtract a TimeDelta_ or
  any quantity with time units.

The standard built-in Time formats that are available in |CxoTime| are:

===========  ==============================
Format       Example
===========  ==============================
byear        1950.0
byear_str    'B1950.0'
cxcsec       63072064.184
datetime     datetime(2000, 1, 2, 12, 0, 0)
decimalyear  2000.45
fits         '2000-01-01T00:00:00.000(TAI)'
gps          630720013.0
iso          '2000-01-01 00:00:00.000'
isot         '2000-01-01T00:00:00.000'
jd           2451544.5
jyear        2000.0
jyear_str    'J2000.0'
mjd          51544.0
plot_date    730120.0003703703
unix         946684800.0
yday         2000:001:00:00:00.000
===========  ==============================


Examples
--------
::

  >>> from cxotime import CxoTime
  >>> t = CxoTime(100.0)
  >>> t.date
  '1998:001:00:00:36.816'
  >>> t.format
  'secs'
  >>> t.scale
  'utc'

  >>> import astropy.units as u
  >>> t2 = t + [1, 2] * u.day + [10, 20] * u.s
  >>> t2.date
  array(['1998:002:00:00:46.816', '1998:003:00:00:56.816'], dtype='<U21')

  >>> t = CxoTime([['1998:001:00:00:01.000', '1998:001:00:00:02.000'],
                   ['1998:001:00:00:03.000', '1998:001:00:00:04.000']])
  >>> t.secs
  array([[ 64.184,  65.184],
         [ 66.184,  67.184]])

  >>> t.format
  'date'

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

API docs
========

.. automodule:: cxotime.cxotime
   :members:

Commit message:

Update docs for maude format

docs/index.rst, after:

.. cxotime documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Nov 14 12:35:27 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _Time: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/api/astropy.time.Time.html#astropy.time.Time
.. _TimeDelta: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/time/index.html#time-deltas
.. _astropytime: http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/time/index.html
.. _DateTime: http://cxc.harvard.edu/mta/ASPECT/tool_doc/pydocs/Chandra.Time.html
.. |CxoTime| replace:: :class:`~cxotime.cxotime.CxoTime`

Chandra-specific astropy Time class
===================================

The ``cxotime`` package provides a |CxoTime| class which provides Chandra-specific
functionality while deriving from the Time_ class of the astropytime_ package.
The astropytime_ package provides robust 128-bit time representation,
arithmetic, and comparisons.

The Chandra-specific time formats which are added to the astropy Time_ class
are shown in the table below.  Like DateTime_, the |CxoTime| class
default is to interpret any numerical values as ``secs`` (aka ``cxcsec`` in
the native Time_ class).

========= ===========================================  =======
 Format   Description                                  System
========= ===========================================  =======
secs      Seconds since 1998-01-01T00:00:00 (TT)       utc
date      YYYY:DDD:hh:mm:ss.ss..                       utc
frac_year YYYY.ffffff = date as a floating point year  utc
greta     YYYYDDD.hhmmsssss                            utc
maude     YYYYDDDhhmmsssss                             utc
========= ===========================================  =======


Compatibility with DateTime
---------------------------

The key differences between |CxoTime| and DateTime_ are:

- In |CxoTime| the date '2000:001' is '2000:001:00:00:00' instead of
  '2000:001:12:00:00' in DateTime_ (prior to version 4.0).  In most cases this
  interpretation is more rational and expected.

- In |CxoTime| the date '2001-01-01T00:00:00' is UTC by default, while in
  DateTime_ that is interpreted as TT by default.  This is triggered by
  the ``T`` in the middle.  A date like '2001-01-01 00:00:00' defaults
  to UTC in both |CxoTime| and DateTime_.

- In |CxoTime| the difference of two dates is a TimeDelta_ object
  which is transformable to any time units.  In DateTime_ the difference
  of two dates is a floating point value in days.

- Conversely, starting with |CxoTime| one can add or subtract a TimeDelta_ or
  any quantity with time units.

The standard built-in Time formats that are available in |CxoTime| are:

===========  ==============================
Format       Example
===========  ==============================
byear        1950.0
byear_str    'B1950.0'
cxcsec       63072064.184
datetime     datetime(2000, 1, 2, 12, 0, 0)
decimalyear  2000.45
fits         '2000-01-01T00:00:00.000(TAI)'
gps          630720013.0
iso          '2000-01-01 00:00:00.000'
isot         '2000-01-01T00:00:00.000'
jd           2451544.5
jyear        2000.0
jyear_str    'J2000.0'
mjd          51544.0
plot_date    730120.0003703703
unix         946684800.0
yday         2000:001:00:00:00.000
===========  ==============================


Examples
--------

Basic initialization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
::

  >>> from cxotime import CxoTime
  >>> t = CxoTime(100.0)
  >>> t.date
  '1998:001:00:00:36.816'
  >>> t.format
  'secs'
  >>> t.scale
  'utc'

  >>> import astropy.units as u
  >>> t2 = t + [1, 2] * u.day + [10, 20] * u.s
  >>> t2.date
  array(['1998:002:00:00:46.816', '1998:003:00:00:56.816'], dtype='<U21')

  >>> t = CxoTime([['1998:001:00:00:01.000', '1998:001:00:00:02.000'],
                   ['1998:001:00:00:03.000', '1998:001:00:00:04.000']])
  >>> t.secs
  array([[ 64.184,  65.184],
         [ 66.184,  67.184]])

  >>> t.format
  'date'

Guessing and specifying the format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Generally speaking ``CxoTime`` will successfully guess the format for
string-based times. However this requires some time, so if you know the
format in advance then it is recommended to provide this via the ``format``
argument.
::

  >>> t = CxoTime('2020001223344555', format='maude')
  >>> t.date
  '2020:001:22:33:44.555'

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

API docs
========

.. automodule:: cxotime.cxotime
   :members:
